I know things will work out the way
they're meant to
Westworld is coming back after being
gone for almost two years which is
actually really hard to believe so much
time has passed the text might have
wiped your memory so I'm here to refresh
your reveries and explain everything in
chronological order this show takes
place in the not-too-distant future when
robots are becoming more human-like and
appearance to engineers Robert Ford and
Arnold Weber have perfected humanoid
robots so well that they're basically
indistinguishable from the real thing
they plan to create a high-end amusement
park called West world where the richest
1% can play cowboys with these realistic
busts they can choose to be a hero or a
villain and the robots in the park are
called hosts they operate in
predetermined stories called loops
unless one of the humans pulls them away
from this story at the end of every day
the hosts memories are wiped ensuring
that they will never rise up against
their human masters it looks like John's
suffering makes the hosts seem more real
so they all have a horrible memory as
their cornerstone the event that defines
them Arnel becomes fascinated with a
host named Dolores and sees that she's
slowly gaining consciousness he calls
this inner journey for sentience the
maze so you phoned the center of the
maze he realizes that if the host became
sentient in the park would be a living
hell for them so he wants to shut it
down but for disagrees maybe he had
something different in mind for us so
then Arnold combines Dolores his program
with a new villain they've created
called wyatt's he programs her to kill
all the other hosts and then himself
before dying he quotes Shakespeare then
he reasoned Ford will never be able to
open the park because the danger and bad
publicity so for it opens the park and
there's all sorts of safety protocols
like the host can only injure each other
and can't harm an actual living think a
corporation called del owes invest in
the park could sound by James Delos and
his son Logan likes to party and be a
villain and he brings James's son-in-law
William to the park since he's entering
the family business
Logan really wants William to cut loose
but he's all like oh no I'm a good
person I bring my own bags to the
grocery you're being a nurse then they
meet Dolores who has wandered away from
her loop William catches feelings for
and they do it on a train
then Logan shows Williams she's
basically a sex doll and he doesn't take
this news well William goes on a killing
spree and sends Logan naked into the
elements and he drops a photo of his
wife remember that for later Logan is
rescued by a Native American named a
catchy top years earlier he found the
remnants of Dolores his rampage and this
set him on his own path independent of a
pre-planned Luke he becomes obsessed
with the idea that there's a door to
another world more on him and a bit
William searches all across the park for
Dolores but he finds her right back in
town inside of her loop and she doesn't
remember him so this convinces him that
nothing he felt for her was real and she
was just planted by Ford to get him to
invest in the park the park sent her so
that you will finally have something to
give about oh yeah I'm sure the people
of the controls are monitoring my every
mood that's exactly what they're doing
after this what you becomes a real son
of a [ __ ] you really are just a thing I
can't believe I fell in love with you so
William convinces his father-in-law
James delos to invest more in the park
the Della's corporation becomes the main
investor in west world essentially
owning the place after logan Odie's and
james Telos dies William takes over the
company he builds a place called the
forge in the valley beyond where they
store the info they gather on the parks
guests but they're also using this data
to study the guests so they can
replicate human consciousness in a robot
body essentially conquering death this
is what they do with James dillos but
his copied consciousness keeps breaking
down because it can't handle the idea
that it's fake they try out like like
hundreds of different Ellis's over the
years so years go by and Ford realises
that Arnold was right he decides the
hosts will grow and become sentient
while the human race can no longer
evolve and things that we had done this
is as good as vegan again so with the
lorises help he rebuilds Arnold as a
host and calls him Bernard except
Bernard has no idea that he's a host it
doesn't look like anything to me four
denotes the Della's corporation we'll
never agree to shut down the park and
the host will be condemned to live a
lifetime of torment so he secretly
begins a new narrative that will give
the host a fighting chance he updates
them with something called reveries
which allows them to retain a small
portion of their memories how memories
are purged at the end of every narrative
they're still in there waiting to be
written like like a subconscious so
years have gone by and William now looks
like Ed Harris his wife reads his psych
profile and realizes that he's secretly
a monster and so she kills herself
now William wants to find out how evil
he can actually be he visits the newest
Ellis host and drives him crazy just for
fun and then he enters the park and
kills a host daughter just to see if he
feels bad about it but the host Maeve
grieves so hard for her daughter that
William see something real in her a
flash of true consciousness she was
alive truly alive if I live for a moment
afterwards he becomes obsessed with a
secret game in the park called the maze
and just world times sake he torments
Dolores and kills her boyfriend teddy
the next day Dolores his father Peter
Abernathy finds the old photo of
Williams wife and he glitches out
Dolores looks for help and this throws
her out of her loop she wanders the park
having flashbacks that she thinks are
happening in the present day her father
has taken to cold storage with the other
glitching hoes Maeve meanwhile has been
reprogrammed to be the madam of a
brothel but she wakes up during her
cleaning and gradually figures out what
she really is she forces a tech named
Felix to bump up her stats giving her
increased intelligence and also the
ability to control other hosts the way
humans can another host called the
woodcutter starts to glitch out and he's
tracked down by a tech named Elsie she
discovers that the woodcutter is
actually transmitting data to a dela
server outside the park but before she
can report this she's kidnapped by
Bernard who's unconsciously acting on
Ford's orders now there's a bit of a
cold war between Ford and Delos they
want to fire him so they can have full
control of the park but he has the
ability to delete all of the data for
just wants to keep things going long
enough to get his new narrative off the
ground I think however you will find my
new narrative was satisfying so Ford
orders Bernard to kill a suspicious
Telus employee then she'll be replaced
by Charlotte's one of the higher-ups
Adela's after the woodcutter was
discovered Charlotte finds another way
to smuggle the data outside the park she
places it in the defective brain of
Peter Abernathy
what does concern you is giving him a
semblance of a personality and getting
him on the train
out of the park meanwhile her boss
William has taken Teddy hostage to help
look for the maze and a man named Wyatt
because he doesn't know the Wyatt is
really Dolores eventually he runs across
the Loras and forces her to show him the
maze so she fights back and manages to
actually hurt him breaking her
programming and this was foreshadowed by
this moment in the first episode William
realized that the maze wasn't a game for
the guests but for the host tries to
tell you the maze wasn't meant for you
it's meant for them
Teddy finds the mortally wounded Dolores
and takes her to a beach where she dies
in his arms but then it's revealed that
this was actually the new narrative
along what or was it after this Dolores
has taken to a hidden facility where she
realizes that she's been hearing her own
voice in her head and that she's
actually become sentient this is an
effect called
a by common of mind so Ford is hosting
all of the Delos higher-ups at the
original town where Arnold died and then
his true narrative begins he programmed
Dolores to murder him and for all the
other hosts to kill the human guess
Peter Abernathy is also set loose in the
park and remember he contains all of the
valuable data that Charlotte and the
Della's corporation need now Maeve
meanwhile realizes that everything she's
done this whole season was actually
programmed by someone Ford no one's
controlling me but she still kills a
bunch of humans and arranges to smuggle
herself out of the park but then just as
she's about to leave she remembers her
daughter and decides to go back in and
save her
William meanwhile is 10 kinds of excited
because he thinks to the park where he
can actually be hurt is better than
bacon he's excited for the challenge and
ready to play a big part and for its
final game now let's talk about season 2
where a lot of characters are running
around the park interacting and then
running another way only to find
themselves back together again it can be
pretty confusing so I'm going to
condense the timeline for you just a bit
Delores and Wyatt's personalities have
merged and she's going around the park
killing humans and recruiting others to
her cause she shows Teddy that he's not
real and he stays at her side but he's a
little conflicted by all the killing the
Confederate OHS join up to giving her
command of an entire army meanwhile
Bernard finds Abernathy but they're both
taken by Dolores his army Dolores is
very happy to see your dad I'm gonna get
you go
I wanna get you help Charlotte who
remember only wants to find the data in
Abernathy's head 35 years of vitally
important data goes back to the base and
gets together a strike force to take him
back by force there's a big battle where
Dolores expends all of her troops
killing the humans but Charlotte
captures Abernathy
so now Dolores and Teddy are on their
own but she's tired of his good guy
stick so she reprograms him to be a
terminator who answers to her commands
men who that train
who's bill week and born to fail now
let's check in with Maeve whose arc is
largely unimportant to the story but
very important to the show's team of
exploring what makes someone real she
wants to go back in the park and find
her daughter so she and Hector and Felix
and this other guy travel back into West
world where she runs into Dolores and
refuses to fight in her war Wow best of
luck
the group is chased by ghosts nation and
actually ends up in a totally different
part called Shogun world whose
storylines mirror those in West world
they meet a Geisha who loves another
geisha like she's her daughter marrying
maids love for her daughter so the
younger geisha dies turns out love is
real and most importantly now maid could
control other hosts with her mind she
returns to West world and finds her
daughter but his heartbroken to see that
she has a new mother and doesn't even
remember maid mama but before she can
dwell on this treble bruised Bernardo
escapes Dolores and comes to a cave
where in the first season he imprisoned
Elsie he apologizes to her and now she
knows that he's a host but she's kind of
cool with it so they discovered the
crazy Delos clone and Bernards memory
starts hopping around in time they
decide to plug him into the park's
backup server so he can find out what's
really going on then he finds forced
consciousness is inside the computer so
he downloads himself into Bernard and he
follows him around for the rest of the
season telling him what to do pick up
the dead man's gun vinod he and Elsie
set off for the valley beyond where
Delos is keeping all the data they
gathered on humans and William is having
a great time on his own little side
adventure to the valley beyond he meets
a copy of Ford who tells him a fun duel
he tries to recruit other hosts to help
him like Gus fring but Ford arranges a
mass suicide to keep him from having too
much help from NPCs he saves this guy's
family but then a proxy for tells him I
know who you are William
one good deed doesn't change that
meanwhile Dolores hijacks the Train and
crashes into the Mesa to find her father
she realizes that Charlotte once
whatever is inside his head so she cuts
out his brain leaving him for dead now
it's just her and Teddy and she's all
like let's go to the valley beyond and
he's like you're a monster I'm killing
myself back to William he runs into Mei
who has all kinds of pissed on account
of him killing her daughter and she
almost kills him before the Della's
troops intervene then he crosses paths
with his daughter who just escaped
killer robots in Raja world another
adjacent Park they have a heart-to-heart
I'm not gonna let you stay here now and
go out and some [ __ ]
blaze of glory but William is obsessed
with this game and he thinks emily is a
host planted by ford because she knew
his psych profile I read your profile
mom left it for me I never told anyone
about my role so Wendell owes troops
show up he murders them and then murders
his own daughter because he's convinced
that she's a host but then he sees that
she actually has his psych profile and
that she was his real daughter all along
what he starts to doubt whether he's a
human or a host but before he can dig
components out of his arm he runs into
his old pal Delores and they ride for
the valley beyond together meanwhile
Bernard deletes Ford from his mind but
he still hears him talking he leaves
Elsie at the headquarters and heads to
the valley beyond all by himself
Delores finds Bernard she turns on
William and then the two of them head to
the valley beyond together the valley
contains the forge which is all the data
gathered on humans and Abernathy's brain
is the encryption key to access this
info Maeve is also back at the
headquarters and she's all messed up and
then Ford gets in her head and he tells
her that you are my favorite I tried to
save you you're amazing and now you
should go save everyone else
I remember a catch a taste door I
believe there is a door hidden in this
place
door to a new world he's been looking
for it for years
he helps Maeve speak to her daughter and
he says that they'll protect her
Ohio cook the Joe Couto huapi and then
he tells Maeve about the door this way
to escape this world and then maids like
well I got to help you find that door so
she escapes gets back to a key to tame
the two of them are gonna open this door
together so now let's talk about the
door which is what the whole season was
leading up to Ford created a virtual
Eden for the host called the sublime the
door was a way for them to upload their
brains to this cloud and Delores doesn't
want them to enter the sublime she calls
it a world is just another false promise
so Maeve working with the key to tape
mind controls people into entering this
door and Charlotte reprograms a host to
order people to fight so they can't
enter it's the whole climax of the
season in the end Barnard kills Delores
so the door can stay open Maeve
sacrifices herself to save her daughter
and most of the hosts escape into a
CinemaScope paradise back at the Mesa
Charlotte kills Elsie because she knows
too much in the Bernard retaliates by
killing Charlotte and then Bernard
decides to create a new Charlotte with
the lorises mind essentially
resurrecting Dolores he realizes that he
wasn't hearing Ford's voice inside of
his head it was his own and now he's
truly a sentient being
[Music]
the humans figure out that he's a host
and Dolores posing as Charlotte shoots
him but then Charlotte Dolores has a
change of heart and uploads all of the
hosts of the sublime anyways she escapes
the park with eight hosts heads in a
duffel bag and then rebuilds Bernard in
the outside world she wants to destroy
humanity he wants to save it and the
stage is set for a conflict that takes
place in the outside world in season
three but wait there's also a creepy
epilogue now William who we last saw
bleeding out on the beach enters into
Kade forge and meets a hosts version of
his daughter Emily how many times have
you tested me
it's been a long time line it's implied
here that his mind was uploaded into a
host body and this is all a fidelity
test to see if he'll wig out like James
Delos now this also hints that a lot of
his storyline this season was just a
simulation his mind was running through
to see a virtual William killed his
daughter like he did in real life so
William might be a host in season 3 or
he might not well guys that's all the
west-world if it was confusing just ask
me any questions the comments I'm happy
to answer them and if you're new here
please subscribe or screen crush I'm
Ryan Arry
[Music]